## Part A
My contributions to this project was setting up the server and implementing the functionality that we wanted the website to have. And to make sure that functionality also worked well with the database. During this semester I mainly implemented functionality, especially functionality dealing with user input. This functionality included setting up and refining a form for user input for adding a recipe, adding the ability for a user to attached a picture to a recipe, and user management functionality. The user management functionality includes the creation, modification, and deletion of users. I was able to build upon my skills on web development, especially with creating a server that deals with different type of data.  I was also able to build on my software development from the business side, working to set deadlines for the team and follow through with them. I also improved upon my testing skills with ensuring all of my code is up to standard, and with testing my teammates code. 

Using the Django system, I was able to easily set up a server that runs webpages and a database that stores all the data needed for that website. This server held pages for user login, the ‘home’ page for each user, the user profile page, and pages to add, view, edit and delete recipes. The recipes were stored in the data base by getting the user input information from the form and creating a database row with that information. If the recipe was going to be edited by the user, the information was pulled from the database and placed into the form fields. After the user was done editing the server looked for the database entry with the same recipe id and updated the fields in the database with the new information in the form. During this time I learned more about setting up a database, and who different ways of setting up a database can effect the efficiency of querying that database for data. I also learned more about input checking and user design when designing the forms. During this semester I was able to successfully create a working server with the functionality our project required, and was also able to help keep our team on track with our deadlines. The obstacles I faced this year were mainly personal, not so much technical. Not meeting in person to work on this project, or attend classes in person and overall personal issues put to the for front from the pandemic were difficult to work with. 

## Part B
By the end of this semester our group was able to provide a working demo of our intended product, a recipe management website with a working backend and an user-friendly front end. We were also able to create and train a recipe-parser from scratch that has a reasonable level of accuracy. During our time working together I learned that hard deadlines are necessary for teamwork, and especially team work with software development. I also learned that while daily communication may not be necessary, frequent and consistent communication is needed to make sure everyone is on track to meet the deadlines and possibly assign help if needed. 

Our team communicated well, and did fairly well with meeting deadlines to get group work done. The only thing I would say that we didn’t do well with this semester was having multiple synchronous meetings to get on the same page and talk about future plans. Most communications and decisions were made via text. And while group members responded in a timely manner the time could’ve still been cut down if we could have talked about those issues together in a synchronous format. I feel for our team, each member contributed about equal effort, but in different times of development. Ben Hollar and I both put more effort in during the Fall/early Spring semesters because our functionality needed to be in place first before testing/user design could happen. After the server was up and running Stephanie was able to work on the user-design portions and help develop some of the last bits of functionality. Testing was spread out between us three, with an understanding that each person would test their code before pushing it to the Github branch. And when issues were found they were promptly reported to the person who submitted the code. I believe both of my team members deserve recognition because without their work and expertise on the elements they worked on, the demo we submitted for the expo wouldn’t have been near as complete. 
